README.md, before:

# The Smoking Rolo Sideshow Offial Website

Stream One Project: User-Centric Frontend Development - Code Institute

This website is to promote Indie Rock band The Smoking Rolo Sideshow, and to keep fans of the band updated on news such as tours and new music releases; as well as to provide background information on the band to potential new fans who are only just discovering them, and to provide them with easy access to the band's videos and back catalogue of music.

A Japanese version of the page has also been included, as the band's record sales were particularly high in both the UK and Japan, where they have a large following and their music is very popular.

A live desktop demo can be found [here](https://sianjade.github.io/smoking-rolo-sideshow-website/).
 
 
## UX
 
The main aim of this website was to compile and display all relevant information about the band in a clear, contemporary fashion, and in a way that is simple for the user to navigate and digest.

I wanted to ensure that users who visited the site - whether they were long time fans of the band, or had only recently discovered them and were looking to learn more about them - would be able to find specific, relevant information easily and quickly. I achieved this by breaking the site up into clearly defined sections and adding links in the navbar that would allow them to jump to the particular section on the page they are looking for, making it simple for users to find the specific information they were looking for without having to traverse the entire site in order to find this information.

The Music section of the site also allows users to download each track for offline listening should they wish to do so. Social media links for the band are also included in the footer section so that users can follow these in order to keep up to date with the band's activity and any news.


## Features

### Existing Features

The site uses FancyBox 3 for the Gallery section of the website in order to showcase each of the images in a compact and contemporary looking format as thumbnails, whilst aslo allowing users to click and expand to a larger, full screen view of a specific image they wish to see, rather than having to cycle indiviually through every image - as would be the case if a Bootstrap carousel had been used for the Gallery insted.

The site also makes use of Bootstrap's card deck component in order to display the band's music, with an image of the album art each song is featured on so as to add more visual appeal than if the songs were listed in a text only form or by using the `audio` tag by itself, as an image cannot be added to the audio tag, but an image and audio can be added to a Bootstrap card.

The site also implements Bootstrap's tooltips when the flag buttons in the navbar - which allow the user to switch between the English and Japanese versions of the site - are hovered over, in order to make sure that it is clear what the buttons do when they are clicked.

### Features Left to Implement

In future versions of the website, I would like to add a social media aggregator so that any posts or updates posted across the band's various social media accounts would all appear together in one, easy to locate place on the website, and update in real time as new social media posts are made, so that users of the site can see all of the band's social media activity together in one place.

In future versions of the website - to the Japanese page in particular - I would also like to add custom validation messages to the Bootstrap form used in the Booking section of the website, as currently the validation feedback messages only display in English, but it would be more user friendly for them to display in Japanese on this version of the page.


## Technologies Used

- [HTML5](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/HTML5)
    - The project uses HTML5 as the main coding language.

- [CSS3](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS3)
    - The project uses CSS3 in order to style the HTML5 and Bootstrap elements and components.

- [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
    - The project uses some light JavaScript in order for the Bootstrap tooltips to properly function.

- [Bootstrap (ver 4.3.1)](https://getbootstrap.com/)
    - The project uses the Bootstrap 4 grid and components in order to acheive a responsive layout.

- [FancyBox 3](http://fancyapps.com/fancybox/3/)
    - The project uses FancyBox 3 to acheive a modern and responsive image gallery.

- [Adobe Photoshop CS3](https://www.adobe.com/uk/products/photoshop.html)
    - The project required Adobe Photoshop CS3 in order to create the PNG images used for the headings of each section, the nav brand, and to re-size and re-touch images as required.

- [Google Translate](https://translate.google.com/)
    - The project required Google Translate to ensure that the Japanese version of the page was written correctly.

- [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/icons?d=gallery)
    - The project uses FontAwesome for icons such as the hamburger menu and social media icons.


## Testing

In order to test that the site was fully responsive across a multitude of device sizes, I used the device toolbar that can be found in Google Chrome's developer tools and applied each different screen size to both the English and Japanese versions of the website in order to ensure that they displayed correctly on each screen size. I also ran the site on FireFox, Opera, Microsoft Edge, and Internet Explorer in order to make sure that all features of the site - such as the glow on hover with buttons and clickable items - worked across various different browser types.

When testing the site on web browsers on IOS devices, I discovered that the Bootstrap table used for the Tour Dates section of the site did not correctly function - sideways scrolling was not possible, and so on smaller IOS devices it was not possible to access the tickets buttons beside each date. In order to overcome this issue, I decided to collapse the table on small devices via a CSS media query. This did solve the issue of the table not working on IOS devices as it was now collapsed to fit the screen, so there was no longer a need need to scroll sideways. However, as the `td:before` `position` needed to be set to `absolute` in order to display correctly, this caused the collapsed table to sit behind the transparent overlay that had been placed over the background image in order to make the page's text more legible against the background. In order to solve this issue, I decided to remove the transparent overlay altogether and simply darken the background image using Photoshop and then use this darkened image as the background image in order to eliminate the need for the transparent overlay, thus eliminating the problem of the collapsed table sitting behind the overlay instead of on top of it.

I also discovered that on IOS and Windows phone browsers, the SVGs used for the navbar brand and for the headings of each section did not appear on the screen. In order to resolve this issue I saved the SVG images used as PNGs instead, which resolved the issue for both devices.

On Internet Explorer, I discovered that the Music section of the site is slightly compressed - the album art images are slightly elongated vertically, and the `audio` elements overlap one another slightly, although they do still function as intended and play the audio files. This section displays correctly across all other browsers I have tested, however, and I am still currently attempting to devise a way to solve the compression issue on Internet Explorer.

One other bug I have encountered is that upon closing out of an enlarged image in the Fancy Box image gallery, the page automatically jumps back to the top instead of remaining on the Gallery section of the page. I attempted to fix this issue by removing the `background-position: fixed` rule from the `main` and `jumbotron` rulesets in the CSS file, as I suspected this could have been the cause of the jumping to the top of the page, however this did not solve the issue, thus I am still currently working on a resolution for this issue.


## Deployment

This website is hosted using GitHub Pages and has been deployed from the master branch - this allows the deployed site to automatically update with any new commits made to the master branch. The main landing page is named `index.html` in order to ensure that it would be correctly deployed to GitHub Pages.

In order to deploy the site to GitHub Pages, I first clicked the settings tab on the GitHub repository for the site, from there I scrolled down to the GitHub Pages section of the setting tab and changed the Source from 'none' to 'master branch' - this deployed the site to GitHub pages and provided me with a link to the hosted page, which I then added to the description of the repository.

Should you wish to run this application locally, simply click the green clone or download button in the [GitHub repository for the project](https://github.com/SianJade/smoking-rolo-sideshow-website), and then type `git clone` followed by the clone or download link into your terminal.


## Credits

### Content

- All content in the About section of the site was written by the band's vocalist and lyricist, Ben Greener.

### Media

- All images and audio files used in this project belong exclusively to The Smoking Rolo Sideshow, who granted me access and permission to use these within the website. The embedded YouTube video is from the band's official YouTube channel, which they also gave me permission utilize in the project.


### Acknowledgements

- The CSS used to override Bootstrap's form focus colour can be found on [Tutorial Republic](https://www.tutorialrepublic.com/faq/how-to-change-bootstrap-default-input-focus-glow-style.php).

- The CSS used to override Bootstrap's tooltip background and arrow colour can be found on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36143382/re-color-tooltip-in-bootstrap-4).

- The CSS used to remove Bootstrap's default active button outline was adapted from answers found on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31379175/bootstrap-button-on-click-showing-default-colour).

- The CSS used to collapse the Tour Date table on small devices can be found on [CSS Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/responsive-data-tables/).

- The outer glow on hover was adapted from code found on [CodePen](https://codepen.io/ryancolgin/pen/IBjla).

Commit message:

update mobile background, about section, readme

README.md, after:

# The Smoking Rolo Sideshow Offial Website

Stream One Project: User-Centric Frontend Development - Code Institute

This website is to promote Indie Rock band The Smoking Rolo Sideshow, and to keep fans of the band updated on news such as tours and new music releases; as well as to provide background information on the band to potential new fans who are only just discovering them, and to provide them with easy access to the band's videos and back catalogue of music.

A Japanese version of the page has also been included, as the band's record sales were particularly high in both the UK and Japan, where they have a large following and their music is very popular.

A live desktop demo can be found [here](https://sianjade.github.io/smoking-rolo-sideshow-website/).
 
 
## UX
 
The main aim of this website was to compile and display all relevant information about the band in a clear, contemporary fashion, and in a way that is simple for the user to navigate and digest.

I wanted to ensure that users who visited the site - whether they were long time fans of the band, or had only recently discovered them and were looking to learn more about them - would be able to find specific, relevant information easily and quickly. I achieved this by breaking the site up into clearly defined sections and adding links in the navbar that would allow them to jump to the particular section on the page they are looking for, making it simple for users to find the specific information they were looking for without having to traverse the entire site in order to find this information.

For the About section of the page, I added a small general overview of the band as a whole, before introduing each of the members indiviually. This general biography of the band will not only provide some additional context about the band and their origins to fans who may be interested, but it also serves as a description of the band which people or companies such as promoters, reviewers, and concert venues are able to copy and paste to use on their own sites should they wish to.

The Music section of the site also allows users to download each track for offline listening should they wish to do so. Social media links for the band are also included in the footer section so that users can follow these in order to keep up to date with the band's activity and any news.


## Features

### Existing Features

The site uses FancyBox 3 for the Gallery section of the website in order to showcase each of the images in a compact and contemporary looking format as thumbnails, whilst aslo allowing users to click and expand to a larger, full screen view of a specific image they wish to see, rather than having to cycle indiviually through every image - as would be the case if a Bootstrap carousel had been used for the Gallery insted.

The site also makes use of Bootstrap's card deck component in order to display the band's music, with an image of the album art each song is featured on so as to add more visual appeal than if the songs were listed in a text only form or by using the `audio` tag by itself, as an image cannot be added to the audio tag, but an image and audio can be added to a Bootstrap card.

The site also implements Bootstrap's tooltips when the flag buttons in the navbar - which allow the user to switch between the English and Japanese versions of the site - are hovered over, in order to make sure that it is clear what the buttons do when they are clicked.

### Features Left to Implement

In future versions of the website, I would like to add a social media aggregator so that any posts or updates posted across the band's various social media accounts would all appear together in one, easy to locate place on the website, and update in real time as new social media posts are made, so that users of the site can see all of the band's social media activity together in one place.

In future versions of the website - to the Japanese page in particular - I would also like to add custom validation messages to the Bootstrap form used in the Booking section of the website, as currently the validation feedback messages only display in English, but it would be more user friendly for them to display in Japanese on this version of the page.


## Technologies Used

- [HTML5](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/HTML/HTML5)
    - The project uses HTML5 as the main coding language.

- [CSS3](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS3)
    - The project uses CSS3 in order to style the HTML5 and Bootstrap elements and components.

- [JavaScript](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript)
    - The project uses some light JavaScript in order for the Bootstrap tooltips to properly function.

- [Bootstrap (ver 4.3.1)](https://getbootstrap.com/)
    - The project uses the Bootstrap 4 grid and components in order to acheive a responsive layout.

- [FancyBox 3](http://fancyapps.com/fancybox/3/)
    - The project uses FancyBox 3 to acheive a modern and responsive image gallery.

- [Adobe Photoshop CS3](https://www.adobe.com/uk/products/photoshop.html)
    - The project required Adobe Photoshop CS3 in order to create the PNG images used for the headings of each section, the nav brand, and to re-size and re-touch images as required.

- [Google Translate](https://translate.google.com/)
    - The project required Google Translate to ensure that the Japanese version of the page was written correctly.

- [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/icons?d=gallery)
    - The project uses FontAwesome for icons such as the hamburger menu and social media icons.


## Testing

In order to test that the site was fully responsive across a multitude of device sizes, I used the device toolbar that can be found in Google Chrome's developer tools and applied each different screen size to both the English and Japanese versions of the website in order to ensure that they displayed correctly on each screen size. I also ran the site on FireFox, Opera, Microsoft Edge, and Internet Explorer in order to make sure that all features of the site - such as the glow on hover with buttons and clickable items - worked across various different browser types.

When testing the site on web browsers on IOS devices, I discovered that the Bootstrap table used for the Tour Dates section of the site did not correctly function - sideways scrolling was not possible, and so on smaller IOS devices it was not possible to access the tickets buttons beside each date. In order to overcome this issue, I decided to collapse the table on small devices via a CSS media query. This did solve the issue of the table not working on IOS devices as it was now collapsed to fit the screen, so there was no longer a need need to scroll sideways. However, as the `td:before` `position` needed to be set to `absolute` in order to display correctly, this caused the collapsed table to sit behind the transparent overlay that had been placed over the background image in order to make the page's text more legible against the background. In order to solve this issue, I decided to remove the transparent overlay altogether and simply darken the background image using Photoshop and then use this darkened image as the background image in order to eliminate the need for the transparent overlay, thus eliminating the problem of the collapsed table sitting behind the overlay instead of on top of it.

I also discovered that on IOS and Windows phone browsers, the SVGs used for the navbar brand and for the headings of each section did not appear on the screen. In order to resolve this issue I saved the SVG images used as PNGs instead, which resolved the issue for both devices.

When testing on real mobile devices, I discovered that the background image of the site was still at its full desktop size and so the artwork in the image could not be seen as it was being stretched outside of the mobile screen. In order to solve this issue, I in a media query for small devices I added mobile-sized background images, giving each section its own individual background image - for the three smaller sections (Videographic, Gallery, and Booking) I was able to fit the full image into the background, with the sides slightly cropped to prevent horizontal compression; however, due to the length of the Tour, About, and Music sections (on account of the content being stacked one item on top of the other) I decided to use an even further cropped section of the background image I had used for the other sections, and focus in on the tall post as the focal point in the artwork, so that the image would fit them in a more appropriate and visually appealing way, without looking overly stretched and elongated.

On Internet Explorer, I discovered that the Music section of the site is slightly compressed - the album art images are slightly elongated vertically, and the `audio` elements overlap one another slightly, although they do still function as intended and play the audio files. This section displays correctly across all other browsers I have tested, however, and I am still currently attempting to devise a way to solve the compression issue on Internet Explorer.

One other bug I have encountered is that upon closing out of an enlarged image in the Fancy Box image gallery, the page automatically jumps back to the top instead of remaining on the Gallery section of the page. I attempted to fix this issue by removing the `background-position: fixed` rule from the `main` and `jumbotron` rulesets in the CSS file, as I suspected this could have been the cause of the jumping to the top of the page, however this did not solve the issue, thus I am still currently working on a resolution for this issue.


## Deployment

This website is hosted using GitHub Pages and has been deployed from the master branch - this allows the deployed site to automatically update with any new commits made to the master branch. The main landing page is named `index.html` in order to ensure that it would be correctly deployed to GitHub Pages.

In order to deploy the site to GitHub Pages, I first clicked the settings tab on the GitHub repository for the site, from there I scrolled down to the GitHub Pages section of the setting tab and changed the Source from 'none' to 'master branch' - this deployed the site to GitHub pages and provided me with a link to the hosted page, which I then added to the description of the repository.

Should you wish to run this application locally, simply click the green clone or download button in the [GitHub repository for the project](https://github.com/SianJade/smoking-rolo-sideshow-website), and then type `git clone` followed by the clone or download link into your terminal.


## Credits

### Content

- All content in the About section of the site was written by the band's vocalist and lyricist, Ben Greener.

### Media

- All images and audio files used in this project belong exclusively to The Smoking Rolo Sideshow, who granted me access and permission to use these within the website. The embedded YouTube video is from the band's official YouTube channel, which they also gave me permission utilize in the project.


### Acknowledgements

- The CSS used to override Bootstrap's form focus colour can be found on [Tutorial Republic](https://www.tutorialrepublic.com/faq/how-to-change-bootstrap-default-input-focus-glow-style.php).

- The CSS used to override Bootstrap's tooltip background and arrow colour can be found on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36143382/re-color-tooltip-in-bootstrap-4).

- The CSS used to remove Bootstrap's default active button outline was adapted from answers found on [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31379175/bootstrap-button-on-click-showing-default-colour).

- The CSS used to collapse the Tour Date table on small devices can be found on [CSS Tricks](https://css-tricks.com/responsive-data-tables/).

- The outer glow on hover was adapted from code found on [CodePen](https://codepen.io/ryancolgin/pen/IBjla).
